# BetterChartJS
Converting different types of information into various visual contexts that humans can easily understand and analyze is called data visualization. Data visualization aids human brains to easily understand patterns, trends, and outliers of data sets. To utilize the maximum benefit of data visualization, various data visualization tools are introduced. All those various types of tools got pros and cons where some are user-friendly but do not support advanced data visualization and some support advanced data visualization but not very user-friendly and expect advanced knowledge of data visualization from the user. Chart js is one of the data visualization tools and a free and open-source JavaScript library which supports eight chart types and is considered to be user-friendly. But it supports fewer customizations and fewer chart types also while scientists and researchers find javascript challenging to use for data visualization. Therefore our goal is to develop an easy-to-use web interface for Chart.js to support advanced data visualizations and improve Chart.js by addressing the above-said limitations. Users can upload a data file of CSV type with a predefined format and set configurations (chat type and attributes) to generate a chart of their choice. Also, users can change attributes of charts like color, font size, font type, etc. A sample data file in CSV format with a predefined format for each chart type is provided and presented the output graph explained why the given chart type is more suitable for the used data type.
